README.md, before:

# Summer Camp Enrollment Dashboard
    https://lookerstudio.google.com/s/sRvBdwceQXA
    https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1XGGhxuWfjlb2WiGxh-bEyMGVFgQtdlbVafmqPyaPB3o/edit#gid=324466194

## Project Summary
Modelled after dashboard created for Austin Saxophon Ensemble to Track enrollment for 2023 summer camp

### Tools Used
- Data cleaning with Google Sheets
- Dashboard in Google Looker Studio
- Dummy Data with Python Pandas, Numpy, Faker

## Problems to Solve
- How many students are enrolled?
- How many enrolled students have paid?
- Did the increase in tuition from $150 to $225 this year adversely affect enrollment?
- Do we have a good distribution across the different saxophones?
- How well have we retained students from last year?
- A majority of students have come from Leander ISD in the past. Have we been effective in recruiting students from new schools and Districts?

### Insights
- Enrollment is currently up 38.8% and Revenue is up 98%
![kpis](/images/kpis.png)
    - The increase in tuition helped boost revenue and did not adversely affect enrollment
- Currently 75% of students have paid
    - Need to send payment reminder to those that have not paid
- Of the 38 students from last year who didn't graduate, only 5 have enrolled this year
    - Send promotional email to students who enrolled last year but have not yet this year (listed on page 2 of dashboard)
- Only 1 middle school soprano player is enrolled, and 1 student enrolled with primary instrument as baritone, which will not be enough.
![ms_instruments](/images/mid_instr.png)
    - Reach to private teachers Gunter, Bull, and McFly who have soprano students attending, and ask for help recruiting more soprano players.
![sop](/images/instr_cross_filter.png)
    - Three middle school students have listed baritone as a secondary instrument; have at least 1 
    play baritone instead of their primary for the camp
- Recruiting efforts have added Round Rock ISD as another strong source for students
![districts](/images/district.png)
    - Focus future recruiting efforts now on Austin, Lake Travis, and Pflugerville ISDs
    - Use the list of schools sending students for the first time to send thank you notes to teachers at those schools in order to foster a continued relationship with them

## Dashboard Techniques Used
- Drop Down Filter and Cross Filters
    - Allow user to filter to Middle Schoolers, High Schoolers, or all
    - Allows determining if all instruments are covered for both school levels
    - Cross filtering identified teachers who sent soprano players
- Calculated fields
    - Calculate labor costs conditional on enrollment totals, and calculate total profit
    - Sorting instruments in order Soprano-Alto-Tenor-Baritone rather than alphabetically
    - Determine which students from last year are eligible to return (have not graduated)
- Blending Data
    - Join School District data set to enrollment data set
    - Self Join to determine which eligible returners have not enrolled
![self_join](/images/self_join.png)

## Data Cleaning and Transformation in Google Sheets

The data for the current year 2023 signups flows into the 2023 Raw tab dynamically from the an online enrollment form. The historical data for 2022 is copied over from a seperate spreadsheet with a different structure to 2023.
- Used ArrayFormula() to apply various functions below to entire columns dynamically as more data flowed into the dataset from the website
- Used combination of Trim(), Upper (), Proper(), Substitute(), and Regexreplace() to 
    - standardize school names (i.e. RRHS becomes Round Rock HS)
![schools](/images/school_cleaning_formula.png)
    - extract private teacher last names and correct spelling errors
    - standardize capitalization
- Used IF(), IFERROR(), and Vlookup() to 
    - match student enrollment record with either their scholarship amount or a standard $225 tuition
![vlookup](/images/vlookup.png)
- Used combination of Query() and arrays to 
    - select columns from different spreadsheets and combine them vertically (similar to SQL Union)
    - Remove duplicates using "Group By" where students submitted multiple sign ups for different instruments
![query](/images/query_formula.png)#####START HERE TAKE NEW QUERY() IMAGE WITH EDITED FORMATTING####

Commit message:

created images and added faker writeup to readme

README.md, after:

# Summer Camp Enrollment Dashboard
    https://lookerstudio.google.com/s/sRvBdwceQXA
    https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1XGGhxuWfjlb2WiGxh-bEyMGVFgQtdlbVafmqPyaPB3o/edit#gid=324466194

## Project Summary
Modelled after dashboard created for Austin Saxophon Ensemble to Track enrollment for 2023 summer camp

### Tools Used
- Data cleaning with Google Sheets
- Dashboard in Google Looker Studio
- Dummy Data with Python Pandas, Numpy, Faker

## Problems to Solve
- How many students are enrolled?
- How many enrolled students have paid?
- Did the increase in tuition from $150 to $225 this year adversely affect enrollment?
- Do we have a good distribution across the different saxophones?
- How well have we retained students from last year?
- A majority of students have come from Leander ISD in the past. Have we been effective in recruiting students from new schools and Districts?

### Insights
- Enrollment is currently up 38.8% and Revenue is up 98%
![kpis](/images/kpis.png)
    - The increase in tuition helped boost revenue and did not adversely affect enrollment
- Currently 75% of students have paid
    - Need to send payment reminder to those that have not paid
- Of the 38 students from last year who didn't graduate, only 5 have enrolled this year
    - Send promotional email to students who enrolled last year but have not yet this year (listed on page 2 of dashboard)
- Only 1 middle school soprano player is enrolled, and 1 student enrolled with primary instrument as baritone, which will not be enough.
![ms_instruments](/images/mid_instr.png)
    - Reach to private teachers Gunter, Bull, and McFly who have soprano students attending, and ask for help recruiting more soprano players.
![sop](/images/instr_cross_filter.png)
    - Three middle school students have listed baritone as a secondary instrument; have at least 1 
    play baritone instead of their primary for the camp
- Recruiting efforts have added Round Rock ISD as another strong source for students
![districts](/images/district.png)
    - Focus future recruiting efforts now on Austin, Lake Travis, and Pflugerville ISDs
    - Use the list of schools sending students for the first time to send thank you notes to teachers at those schools in order to foster a continued relationship with them

## Dashboard Techniques Used
- Drop Down Filter and Cross Filters
    - Allow user to filter to Middle Schoolers, High Schoolers, or all
    - Allows determining if all instruments are covered for both school levels
    - Cross filtering identified teachers who sent soprano players
- Calculated fields
    - Calculate labor costs conditional on enrollment totals, and calculate total profit
    - Sorting instruments in order Soprano-Alto-Tenor-Baritone rather than alphabetically
    - Determine which students from last year are eligible to return (have not graduated)
- Blending Data
    - Join School District data set to enrollment data set
    - Self Join to determine which eligible returners have not enrolled
![self_join](/images/self_join.png)

## Data Cleaning and Transformation in Google Sheets

The data for the current year 2023 signups flows into the 2023 Raw tab dynamically from the an online enrollment form. The historical data for 2022 is copied over from a seperate spreadsheet with a different structure to 2023.
- Used ArrayFormula() to apply various functions below to entire columns dynamically as more data flowed into the dataset from the website
- Used combination of Trim(), Upper (), Proper(), Substitute(), and Regexreplace() to 
    - standardize school names (i.e. RRHS becomes Round Rock HS)
![schools](/images/school_cleaning_formula.png)
    - extract private teacher last names and correct spelling errors
    - standardize capitalization
- Used IF(), IFERROR(), and Vlookup() to 
    - match student enrollment record with either their scholarship amount or a standard $225 tuition
![vlookup](/images/vlookup.png)
- Used combination of Query() and arrays to 
    - select columns from different spreadsheets and combine them vertically (similar to SQL Union)
    - Remove duplicates using "Group By" where students submitted multiple sign ups for different instruments
![query](/images/query_formula.png)

## Creating Fake Data in Faker

To create fake records to fill the 2022 data and 2023 raw data, I used a combination of Numpy and Faker in Python, as well as altering some records by hand to preserve specific "messy" aspects of the original data

- I created several functions that
    - created dictionaries of schools, instruments, or lesson teachers with integers as keys
    - used numpy.randint() to randomly select which key to call thus assigning a dict value for a student
![shirts](/images/shirt_sizer.png_)
![instrument function](/images/inst_func.png)
- I used randint() to determine how many fake records to create
- Then I used Faker to create fake names and email address for students and parents
- Finally I added all the fake data to a dataframe and wrote that to a csv.
![fake](/images/df_creator.png)
